# Replication
---
## Goals
- The trainee will understand how replication works in MongoDB and relevant terms of replication.

## Tasks
* Read about [MongoDB replication](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/replication/) and answer the following: 
  * Explain the idea of replication and how it works on mongodb.
  * Elaborate on how the hierarchy works.
  * What is the `oplog` and how is it used for replication between the hosts.
  * Create a replica set with 2 new members:
      * Insert some data to the database, can you see the data when you connect the other members? explain the replication flow.
      * Print the status of the replica set 
      * What does the `syncedTo` value tells us? 
    * What is a `replica lag`? how can we check the it? 
      * Elaborate the causes of replica lag.
  * Read about replica set [elections](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/core/replica-set-elections/) and explain: 
    * What is a failover?
    * instance `votes` and `priority`.
      * What is the maximum possible amount of voting members in a cluster?
      * How does the `priority` affect the election process?
    * How do you manually step down the primary instance? explain the process that follows.
  * How does the cluster recognize that the master is not available - how is it called?
  * Think of an architecture for 3 members cluster - how would you spread the votes and priority between the members?
    * optional - multisite architecture
* Imagine having a two-region cluster with 3 nodes (each having `vote: 1`) in each site. What will happen if the communication between the two sites fails? 
* Read the DBaaS internal docs about the MongoDB architecture.
 
