# Basics
---
## Goals
* the trainee will be familiar with `redis-cli`
* the trainee will understand basic Redis datatypes
* the trainee will be familiar with basic Redis applicative knowledge

# Tasks
* Install redis-stack-server on your linux machine:
  * Connect to the Redis server using `redis-cli`
  * Using the `redis-cli` print the Redis version
  * Using the `redis-cli` Verify that ReJSON module is installed
  * How can I run a Redis command several times, using a single `redis-cli` command?
  * What does the following command do? `redis-cli -D "" --raw dump key > key.dump && redis-cli -X dump_tag restore key2 0 dump_tag replace < key.dump`
  * What is `RedisInsights`?
  * Connect to the Redis server using `RedisInsights`

* Read about the following Data types in Redis
  * Strings
  * Lists
  * Sets
  * Sorted Sets
  * Hashes
  * Streams
  * Geospatial
  * Bitmaps
  * Bitfields
  * Probabilistic
  * Time Series
  * JSON

* Complete the following tasks and questions:
  * How can you determine which data type a command belongs to? (For example: SADD)
  * How do you remove a key?
  * Create a JSON key that describes our team with the following fields: (name, members, customers_count, leader…)
  * Using the `redis-cli`, Increase the customers_count field by 5
  * How do you create a stream?
  * When adding two keys in a sorted set with the same ‘score’ as another key, which will be first?
  * How can you get a random field from a hash?
  * Create a geospatial indice, add the following locations to it:
    * Gdb 
    * Vitrina 
    * Benz_brothers
  * Using the `redis-cli`, Find the closest location to Azrieli mall using that geospatial indice
  * What is the difference between bitmaps and bitfields?
  * When would you use bitfields and when would you use hashes?
