# Advanced
---
## Goals
* the trainee will be familiar with more advanced Redis Applicative knowledge

## Tasks
* What is the maximum number of databases supported in Redis? How do you transition between them?
* How can you alter the database's configuration?
* How does Redis enable extension of its functionality?
* What is LUA?
* Read about LUA Scripting and Functions in Redis
  * What is the difference between the two?
  * Using `EVAL` create a LUA script that recieves a name, and returns a random number which describes their beauty.  
    Example output would be something along the lines of `On a scale from 1 to 100, chang is 94`
  * Recreate the LUA Script as a Redis Function
  * Which is easier to run and manage? Why?
* What is a transcation?
* Read about Redis transactions
  * Explain the structure of a Redis transaction
  * What occurs if a transaction fails before completion?
  * Run the following transcation:  
    ```
    MULTI
    SET IMPORTANT QWE123
    HGETALL IMPORTANT
    EXEC
    ```
  * What will be the value of the key `IMPORTANT` after the transaction finishes running? Why?
  * How can you rollback a transaction?
  * Explain the use of the `WATCH` command
* Read about Redis Pipelines
  * What are the advantages and disadvantages of pipelines?
  * When would you use a pipeline?
* Read about Pub/Sub Messaging
  * Create a Pub/Sub channel
  * Subscribe to the new channel
  * Open a new terminal and using the `redis-cli` Publish messages to that channel
  * How does Pub/Sub operate within Redis shards?
  * What purpose does the `PSUBSCRIBE` command serve?
* Read about the Keyspace
  * Explain the difference between `SCAN` and `KEYS` commands
  * Explain the difference between `keyspace` and `keyevent` events
  * When does a key expire?
  * What is eviction policy? List all options and detail
  * Run the following command: `SET mykey hello EX 10`
    * Explain the command's purpose
    * How can one see the events driven from running the command?