# Forwarders
---
## Goals
- The trainee will know how to work with `Splunk UF`
- The trainee will know how to work with `Collectd`

## Tasks
1. What is **Splunk Universal Forwarder** (UF)?
1. Why do we need **UF**?
1. Create a new VM and install **Splunk UF*** and answer the following questions:
      * Switch to **Splunk** user
      * What are the main configuration files of the UF?
      * Configure the UF to send `/var/log/messages` (or other file you want) to the new index you have created last chapter. **Give it meaningful *sourcetype* name**
      * Connect to splunk and search get all messages in your index (use **index=*\<your_index_name\>***).
      * How can you change the host field?
      * Remove splunk user permissions to the file you send, make sure splunk user can't read the file. In what **log file** you can see the error?
      * How can you configure the **UF** to send results to your index?
      * Create a script printing some message. Configure the **UF** to send that message to splunk every 30*s*. **Give it meaningful *sourcetype* name**
      * Write *search* to find all logs events with certain word, coming from spesific host and sorted by time.
      * What are the benefits of using **UF** to run script and send data to splunk, over running the script with cron and sending data to splunk using **HEC token**?
1. What are *metrics* and how do they different from *logs*?
1. What is **Collectd**
1. Why do we need **Collectd**?
1. Install **Collectd*** and answer the following questions:
     * What is the main configuration files of Collectd?
     * What are Collectd **plugins**?
     * Where can you see what **plugins** are available?
     * Configure Collectd to send *Storage*, *Memory* and *CPU* metrics to you new index with the **HEC token** you have created.
     * Create a new log file for Collectd and configure Collectd to write his logs to it.
     * Connect to Splunk and show all available metrics in your index.
     * Write search to show the *CPU* usage over time
1. As you can see there is no need for password or username, when configure the UF/collectd to send data to an index. What does prevent other people to send data to your index?

\* You can install `Splunk UF` or `Collectd` with Splunk team Ansible automation, available in gitlab, or you can use thier **one-liner** for installation
