# Best Practice
---
## Goals
- The trainee will understand how to use Splunk better

## Timestamp
Splunk time search is based on the **_time** field. <br/>
**Always** perefer sending your events with your own *timestamp*, otherwise Splunk will set the **_time** field to the indexing time. Sometimes the indexing doesn't happen instantly and the _time field won't be accurate. <br/>
So prefer sending events like:
```
2014-11-03T18:28:32.450-0500 name="nadav" id=15
```
rather than
```
name="nadav" id=15
```

## Sourcetype
**Always** prefer to send data to Splunk with meaningful *sourcetype*, it will help you for searches, auto *fields extraction* and more later on.

### fields extraction
Take for example the following *MongoDB* log:
> `2014-11-03T18:28:32.450-0500` `I` `NETWORK` [`initandlisten`] `waiting for connections on port 27017`

This log is builded from different components. <br />
If you want to extract the different fields from this log you some options:
1. use `rex` command
1. use [*extract fields*](https://docs.splunk.com/Documentation/Splunk/8.1.1/Knowledge/Managesearch-timefieldextractions) Splunk's tool
1. Ask from Splunk team to define that sourcetype (by providing them some *regex* to extract the different fields)

**Always** prefer sending messages structered like:
```
name="nadav" id=15
```

or

```javascript
{
  "name": "nadav",
  "id": 15
}
```

rather than sending data structered like that:
```
my name is: nadav and id is: 15
```

In the first to examples, Splunk will automatically extract the fields in the message to: `name` and `id`. In the last example Splunk won't extract the fields and the fields extraction will require additional work.

Sometimes you will have to ask Splunk team to define your sourcetype.
for example, you want to send message like this, which include 2 different fields with timestamp:
```json
{
     "issue_date": "2014-11-03T18:28:32.450-0500",
     "current_date": "2019-11-03T18:28:32.450-0500",
     "other_fields": "some_value"
}
```

In this example Splunk will set the `_time` fields to the first *timestamp* it will find in the message, which might not be the *timestamp* you have wanted. This can cause many problems. If the selected timestamp will be *2014* you will have to set the search time range to 2014 in order to see this message.

Splunk team can, in the sourcetype definition, define where is the *timestamp* in the message.

## Tasks
1. Extract the different fields from the logs you have sent [previously](3.%20Forwarders.md) using `rex` or *fields extract*, and show all the fields in different columns with `table`.
1. Add **timestamp** to the scripted input you have configured [previously](3.%20Forwarders.md)
1. When would you prefer to perform `search` command? (at the beggining/middle/end...)
